README.md, before:

# DS4002-CS3-CAE-Case-Study
# Reconstructing Turbulence Fields Using Convolutional Autoencoders: A Practical Case Study

## Overview
This repository contains all materials for the CS3 Case Study in DS 4002. Students will learn how to apply a Convolutional Autoencoder (CAE) to reconstruct turbulence fields from scientific simulation data. The assignment includes data, scripts, supplemental readings, and instructions for completing the case study.

## Learning Objectives
By completing this case study, you will learn to:
- Apply a Convolutional Autoencoder to a real-world scientific dataset  
- Generate reconstruction visuals and evaluate model performance  
- Interpret strengths and limitations of autoencoder-based reconstructions  
- Follow a structured deep-learning workflow from data loading to output analysis  

## Repository Structure
/
├── README.md
├── HookDocument_CS3.pdf
├── Rubric_CS3.pdf
│
├── data/
│ ├── README.md
│ ├── raw/ (optional)
│ └── processed/ (optional)
│
├── scripts/
│ ├── cae_case_study.ipynb
│ └── README.md
│
└── supplemental_materials/
├── blog_autoencoder_intro.pdf
├── autoencoder_technical_article.pdf
└── README.md

### 3. Complete the Case Study Tasks
Inside the notebook, you will:
1. Load the turbulence dataset  
2. Train a Convolutional Autoencoder  
3. Generate reconstruction visuals  
4. Save and interpret your results  

Follow all step-by-step instructions in the notebook.

## Deliverables
To complete the case study, you must submit:
- **Two reconstruction visuals** (original vs. reconstructed samples)  
- **A short written interpretation** (3–6 sentences) discussing model results  
- **A working notebook** showing your full workflow and outputs  

## Supplemental Materials
Background readings are provided in:
These materials include:
- A conceptual introduction to autoencoders  
- A technical article describing autoencoder architectures  

These documents will help build your intuition before beginning the case study.

## Questions
If you encounter issues running the notebook or interpreting results, please contact your instructor during office hours.

Commit message:

Enhance README with getting started instructions
Added a 'Getting Started' section with instructions to clone the repository and navigate to the scripts folder.

README.md, after:

# Reconstructing Turbulence Fields Using Convolutional Autoencoders: A Practical Case Study

## Overview
This repository contains all materials for the CS3 Case Study in DS 4002. Students will learn how to apply a Convolutional Autoencoder (CAE) to reconstruct turbulence fields from scientific simulation data. The assignment includes data, scripts, supplemental readings, and instructions for completing the case study.

## Learning Objectives
By completing this case study, you will learn to:
- Apply a Convolutional Autoencoder to a real-world scientific dataset  
- Generate reconstruction visuals and evaluate model performance  
- Interpret strengths and limitations of autoencoder-based reconstructions  
- Follow a structured deep-learning workflow from data loading to output analysis  

## Repository Structure
```
/
├── README.md
├── HookDocument_CS3.pdf
├── Rubric_CS3.pdf
│
├── data/
│ ├── README.md
│ ├── raw/ (optional)
│ └── processed/ (optional)
│
├── scripts/
│ ├── cae_case_study.ipynb
│ └── README.md
│
└── supplemental_materials/
├── blog_autoencoder_intro.pdf
├── autoencoder_technical_article.pdf
└── README.md
```

## Getting Started

### 1. Clone or Download the Repository
git clone https://github.com/Alexlozano1023/DS4002-CS3-CAE-Case-Study.git

### 2. Navigate to the Scripts Folder
Open the following notebook:


### 3. Complete the Case Study Tasks
Inside the notebook, you will:
1. Load the turbulence dataset  
2. Train a Convolutional Autoencoder  
3. Generate reconstruction visuals  
4. Save and interpret your results  

Follow all step-by-step instructions in the notebook.

## Deliverables
To complete the case study, you must submit:
- **Two reconstruction visuals** (original vs. reconstructed samples)  
- **A short written interpretation** (3–6 sentences) discussing model results  
- **A working notebook** showing your full workflow and outputs  

## Supplemental Materials
Background readings are provided in:

These materials include:
- A conceptual introduction to autoencoders  
- A technical article describing autoencoder architectures  

They are intended to support your understanding before beginning the case study.

## Questions
If you encounter issues running the notebook or interpreting results, please contact your instructor during office hours.
